This first config file is pretty straightforward in nature, but let's go to the second line by line
and just make sure that the purpose of every line is really crystal clear.
So a quick diagram.
Okay.
On the left hand side, I've got every line out of that config file and on the right hand side I've
got a couple of notes.
The first thing we wrote was API version V one.
It turns out that Kubernetes is actually a really extensible when you install Kubernetes on your local
machine.
It comes with a preset list of different objects we can create, so we can create things like pods,
deployment services and so on.
We can also tell Kubernetes about custom objects that we want to create as well.
The goal of API version right here is to tell Kubernetes about the pool of objects that we want to draw
from.
So in this case, we are telling Kubernetes, Look at the default V1 Kubernetes list of objects that
we can create.
Then on the right next line, right after that, we specify the exact type of object that we want to
create from that pool.
So in this case, we want to create an object of type pod.
And remember, a pod is going to wrap up a container.
And for our definition or our purposes, a pod is more or less like a container.
Next up was metadata.
Metadata is going to include some different options.
So we want to apply to the object we're about to create.
By far, the most common option that we're going to apply is the name property.
So by providing a name right here, we are saying that when this pod is created, we want the pod to
be given a name of both when we are back at our terminal a moment ago and we ran that command k gift
pods, we saw the name print up right here of posts.
Yeah, that is the metadata name property right there.
So if we had changed post to something else like my odd with those and then try to create this thing
again, it would instead have a name of my pod with posts.
After that, we have the spec, the spec or specification is going to have a list of configuration options
for the port that we're about to create.
This is a very precise definition that controls exactly what should be going on inside this pod and
how the pod should behave.
The only required property we have to throw in here is containers.
Containers is going to be an array.
That's what the little dash right there meant inside of our YAML file.
The dash means that we want to add in a array entity right here.
So we could technically have many containers inside this one pod.
But in our case we have just one.
So one array entry.
For that one array entry.
We're going to provide some configuration for this one container that's going to be created inside the
pod.
The container that's going to be created will be given a name of posts as well.
Now, one thing I want to mention really quickly is that the name properties here don't really have
a lot of big importance.
You can provide a name of whatever makes sense to you.
In this case, I gave the pod and the container inside of it an identical name.
Is that bad practice?
Well, not really, because, again, our pod is only going to be running one container.
So it's kind of okay to have the pod and container have the exact same name.
The only real purpose of a name for us in this context, in the course, is to help us with debugging
and help us understand exactly what pod we're looking at or what container we are working with.
We also provide the image property and this is going to be the exact tag applied to some image.
One thing that you might note here is that I put on a version number here at the very end, you might
recall from your background in Docker that if we do not provide a version at the very end, then Docker
will default to putting on latest in all scenarios if you ever apply or try to create a pod that has
latest on the end right there or doesn't have anything which implies latest, then Kubernetes default
behavior is to try to reach out to Docker Hub and find this image listed on Docker Hub.
We have not pushed this image to Docker Hub, so if we had done that, we would have resulted in an
error.
By putting on an exact version, Kubernetes says, Oh, well, I'm going to assume that if this image
is located on the computer that I'm running on.
So essentially your computer right now, it's just going to go ahead and use that image directly.
So in other words, when it's latest or an implicit latest, which would mean that we just don't have
anything at all.
Kubernetes assumes that it needs to go out to Docker Hub and try to find the latest image as opposed
to using the image that is already on your computer.
So by putting on that version, we're just saying, hey, if you find that version on the local computer,
just use it.
Don't try to reach out to Docker Hub.
Now, functionally, you don't really have to worry about that distinction in practice.
In other words, just don't sweat this too much.
Don't read too much into it.
We only really put this on here to avoid any errors coming up on this first pod that we are creating,
because obviously it would've been kind of nasty to have a air up here immediately.
So usually when we write out a pod spec or a deployment spec, we're usually just going to specify the
image in the form that you see right here and not worry too much about it.
Okay.
So that's it for our config file.
Now, we also ran a command or two in the last video we ran get pods.
So let's do a quick pause right here.
And I want to expand on the K get pods by CTL.
I'll tell you about what that Kay is right there in just a moment.
You're probably wondering why I was able to run that.
I'll tell you about that in just a moment.
Just a little shortcut.
So when we run to get pods, there's a variety of other commands that you need to know.
So we'll take a quick pause right here and expand on some of these commands in just a moment.